=== PAGE 5 ===
Deliverable
Acceptance criterion
Final memo
5 to 8 pages: what works, what fails, what it would cost to run this for 500 companies
Code
Git repo, README, requirements pinned, runs end-to-end with one command
Stretch goals (only if the above is complete)
Auto-extract guidance statements and reported figures from the transcript.
Flag differences between the press release numbers and the numbers spoken on the call.
Sentiment or tone scoring on the Q&A section only.
Assignment 2: Fund Distribution
Detection and Extraction Engine
Objective
Build an engine that determines, for any US or Canadian mutual fund or ETF, whether it declared a dividend or capital gain distribution in
a given period, and then captures the full details into a database.
The assignment is deliberately split into two layers, and the first layer must be built and working before the second is started:
Layer A, the atomic detector. A single-purpose function: given a fund and a date window, did a distribution occur? Yes, no, or
unknown. Cheap, fast, high recall.
Layer B, the extraction engine. Only invoked when Layer A says yes. Expensive, slow, high precision.
This split matters because most funds on most days declare nothing. Running expensive PDF extraction across the whole universe every day
is wasteful. The detector is the gate.
Phase 0 (Days 1 to 3): Learn the domain before
writing any code
Write a short primer, in your own words, covering:
Date types, and why confusing them corrupts a database: declaration date, ex-dividend date, record date, payable date, reinvestment
date. Explain which one an event should be keyed on and why.
US distribution component types: ordinary income dividend, qualified dividend, short-term capital gain, long-term capital gain, return of
capital, foreign tax paid or credit, Section 199A dividend, tax-exempt income.
Canadian distribution component types: eligible dividend, non-eligible dividend, capital gains, return of capital, foreign income, foreign tax
paid, interest and other income. Explain how the year-end T3 or T5 reallocation can restate what was reported during the year, and what that
means for a database that has already recorded the earlier figure.
Estimated versus final: Fund families publish estimated year-end capital gains in October and November, then final figures in December.
Both matter. Explain how you would store both without one silently overwriting the other.
Deliverable: DOMAIN_PRIMER.md, 3 to 5 pages. This gets reviewed before you write code. Getting this wrong makes everything downstream
wrong.

=== PAGE 6 ===
Phase 1 (Days 4 to 10): Layer A, the atomic
detector
Interface
def detect_distribution( 
    fund_id: str,          # internal ID resolving to ticker / CUSIP / ISIN / series ID / FundServ code 
    window_start: date, 
    window_end: date, 
) -> DetectionResult: 
    """ 
    Returns: 
      status: DECLARED | NOT_DECLARED | UNKNOWN 
      confidence: 0.0 - 1.0 
      evidence: list of {source_id, source_tier, url, retrieved_at, snippet_or_locator} 
      suggested_extraction_route: API | HTML_TABLE | PDF | FILING | MANUAL 
    """ 
Three things to note in that signature, all of them deliberate:
UNKNOWN is a first-class outcome. A detector that returns NOT_DECLARED when it simply could not reach the source will silently lose
data forever. Never collapse the two.
Every result carries evidence. A boolean with no pointer to what produced it cannot be audited or debugged.
The detector recommends the extraction route. It has already seen the source, so it knows whether the data sits in a table, a PDF, or a
filing.
Source hierarchy
Build a tiered source registry, and record the tier on every piece of evidence.
Tier 1, authoritative:
SEC EDGAR: Section 19(a) / Rule 19a-1 notices (these exist specifically to disclose distribution sources including return of capital, and
are the single most useful US artefact), N-CEN, N-PORT, 497 and 485BPOS filings.
The EDGAR company, series and class mapping files, which give you the series and class IDs that tickers alone will not.
Exchange notices: Nasdaq and NYSE distribution notices, TMX and CDS bulletins for Canada.
Tier 2, primary but unstructured:
Fund company distribution pages, press releases, "distribution schedule" and "estimated year-end capital gains" PDFs.
Tier 3, corroboration only:
Public market data pages. Useful to cross-check, never to be the only evidence for a record.
Detection strategies, cheapest first
1. Calendar-based expectation. Every fund has an expected frequency: daily accrual, monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, annual, or
irregular. Learn it from history. If a monthly payer has no record for 45 days, that is a signal in itself.
2. Change detection. Hash the fund's distribution page or PDF. If the hash changed, something happened. Cheap and effective.
3. Filing index polling. Poll the EDGAR daily index for the relevant form types filed by CIKs in your universe. Structured and reliable.

=== PAGE 7 ===
4. Targeted lookup. Only where 1 to 3 are inconclusive.
Backfill and gap logic (this is the part the brief specifically asks for)
Maintain per fund: expected_frequency, last_confirmed_event_date, last_checked_at, consecutive_unknowns.
Trigger a lookback sweep when:
Elapsed time since the last confirmed event exceeds 1.5× the expected interval.
Any run returned UNKNOWN more than twice in a row.
A new fund enters the universe (backfill 24 months).
Month-end and year-end, unconditionally, since December is when the capital gain volume lands.
The sweep re-queries a rolling window of N months rather than a single day, because sources publish late and amend. Make N configurable
per source, and justify your default in the memo.
Deliverable: working detector over 100 funds (60 US, 40 Canadian; mix of fund families, and include at least 10 ETFs and 10 monthly-
payers), plus a report on hit rate, false negative rate, and average cost per check.
Phase 2 (Days 11 to 16): Routing and extraction
Only funds flagged DECLARED reach this layer.
Route decision tree
Is there a structured feed or documented API?        → parse directly 
Is there an HTML table on the distribution page?     → HTML parse 
Is there a PDF or Excel distribution schedule?       → document extraction 
Is the data only inside a filing?                    → filing extraction 
None of the above?                                   → queue for manual review 
Log the route taken on every event, so you can report later on how much of the universe is genuinely automatable.
Tools
HTML: httpx, selectolax or BeautifulSoup, pandas.read_html for well-formed tables.
PDF text layer: pdfplumber, PyMuPDF.
PDF tables: camelot, tabula-py.
Scanned PDFs: ocrmypdf with Tesseract, then re-extract.
Excel: openpyxl, pandas.
Rule on LLM-assisted extraction
An LLM may be used to locate and structure values in messy documents. It may not be the last word on any number. Every extracted figure
passes through deterministic validation: format check, magnitude check, component sum check, and cross-source comparison where a
second source exists. Any figure that fails goes to review, not to the database.
Phase 3 (Days 17 to 21): Database design
Design and implement the schema. Suggested shape, refine it and justify your changes:

=== PAGE 8 ===
Table
Purpose
Table
Purpose
fund_master
Fund level: name, family, CIK or SEDAR ID, country, type, inception, status
share_class
Class level: ticker, CUSIP, ISIN, series ID, FundServ code, currency, expected
frequency
source_registry
Every source: URL pattern, tier, parser version, robots and ToS status, last
success
crawl_log
Every attempt: source, timestamp, HTTP status, hash, outcome, duration
raw_document
Immutable copy of every source artefact, with sha256 and retrieval timestamp
distribution_event
One row per class per ex-date: declaration, ex, record, pay dates, currency, total
per share, estimated_or_final flag
distribution_component Child rows: component type, amount per share, percentage
event_evidence
Links events to the raw documents that support them
dq_flag
Validation failures, severity, resolution status
Non-negotiable design requirements:
Idempotency. Re-running the same day must not duplicate rows. Define your natural key explicitly, and defend it.
Amendments. Distributions get restated, especially Canadian year-end reallocations and estimated-to-final capital gains. Never
update in place. Append a new version and mark the old one superseded, so the history of what we believed and when stays intact.
Provenance. Every number traces to a stored document. If it cannot be traced, it does not belong in the table.
Estimated versus final coexist as separate rows, never as an overwrite.
Phase 4 (Days 22 to 25): Validation and quality
Implement these checks and report the pass rate:
Components sum to the stated total, within a tolerance you define and justify.
Ex-date NAV decline is broadly consistent with the distribution per share. A large mismatch is a red flag worth investigating.
Distribution per share is not absurd relative to NAV. Flag anything above 20 percent for review rather than rejecting it, since legitimate
large year-end distributions do exist.
Currency matches the share class currency.
Date ordering is sane: declaration ≤ ex ≤ record ≤ pay.
Frequency continuity: a monthly payer with a missing month gets flagged.
Cross-source variance: where two sources disagree, record both and flag, never silently pick one.
Build a gold set (do this in parallel from Day 4)
Manually verify 300 distribution events across 50 funds spanning at least 24 months, from primary sources only. Record the correct answer
and the evidence URL for each. This is tedious and it is the most valuable artefact you will produce, because without it you cannot state your
accuracy, and an accuracy number without a gold set is a guess.
Deliverables and acceptance criteria
Deliverable
Acceptance criterion
Domain
primer
Reviewed and approved before coding starts
Atomic
detector
Runs over 100 funds; recall ≥ 98% and precision ≥ 99% against the gold set
Routing layer Route logged for 100% of detected events
Extraction
≥ 90% of detected events fully extracted without manual intervention
Database
Schema implemented, populated with 24 months of history for 100 funds, idempotent on re-
run

=== PAGE 9 ===
Deliverable
Acceptance criterion
Validation
All checks implemented, DQ report generated
Gold set
300 verified events with evidence links
Final memo
Coverage by fund family and source type, where automation fails, and what full-universe
scale would cost
Stretch goals
Predict likely declaration dates from history, so the crawler front-loads its effort.
Detect and alert on unusual distributions, such as a first-ever return of capital, or a capital gain far above the fund's own history.
Reconcile against year-end tax character statements.
Common requirements for both
assignments
Repository structure
/src            application code 
/tests          pytest, meaningful coverage on parsers and validators 
/config         source registry, universe files, no secrets committed 
/notebooks      exploration only, not the deliverable 
/docs           memo, primer, compliance file, schema diagram 
/data/samples   small committed samples; large artefacts stay out of Git 
README.md       what it does, how to run it, known limitations 
Standards
Type hints on public functions, ruff clean, black formatted.
Structured logging with correlation IDs. Print statements do not count.
Every network call retried with exponential backoff and a hard timeout.
Secrets in environment variables. Nothing sensitive in the repo, ever.
Cadence
Daily standup note: done yesterday, doing today, blocked by.
Friday demo of working code. Slides are not a demo.
Mid-point review at the end of week 2, where scope can be cut if needed.
Evaluation weighting
Area
Weight
Correctness and measured accuracy
30%
Design quality, especially error and edge-case handling 25%
Documentation and clarity of the final memo
20%
Code quality and tests
15%
Compliance discipline
10%
A closing note for the interns

=== PAGE 10 ===
On both assignments, a working pipeline that covers 60 percent of cases and documents the other 40 percent precisely is a better outcome
than one claiming full coverage that nobody can verify. Report failures in detail. That is the deliverable that gets used.

=== PAGE 11 ===

